Downtimes group scope query syntax (#18836)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/monitors/guide/scoping_downtimes.md

| `env:demo`, `service:synthesizer`                                                | No (missing both `env:prod` and `service:web-store`) |

The union of different tags (e.g. `env:dev OR service:web-store`) is not supported. For such cases, you need to create a separate Downtime for each tag.

### Mute monitors by wildcard scopes

Running large upgrades within your infrastructure is not uncommon. Downtimes can help muting all impacted entities, without much extra scripting. For instance, you could be upgrading all hosts of a given service. These hosts could follow certain naming conventions in your organisation, e.g. being prefixed with their related application. Consequently, you could have hundreds of hosts named something like `host:mydemoapplication-host-1`, `host:mydemoapplication-host-2`, and so forth.

To avoid muting all hosts separately, simply create a Downtime scoped by `host:mydemoapplication-*`. This will match all hosts that are prefixed accordingly. If you convention does the inverse, meaning it ends host names with their related application, can inverse the scope above as well, leading to: `host:*-mydemoapplication`.

### Exclude groups from being muted

> If you are running your application and infrastructure on multiple environments, you likely have (at least) one production environment. All other environments might be build for testing, regression checks, or demo purposes. If you would like to avoid receiving alerts for non-production environments, you could set up a Downtime that is scopes as: `env:* -env:prod`. This scope first targets all alerts that have the `env` tag set and then excludes your production environment as a secondary step.

Author: ```suggestion
If you are running your application and infrastructure on multiple environments, you likely have one production environment and multiple non-production environments (for example, testing, regression checks, or demo). To avoid receiving alerts for non-production environments, you could set up a downtime that is scoped with: `env:* -env:prod`. This scope targets all alerts that have the `env` tag set and then excludes your production environment as a secondary step.
```

{{< img src="monitors/downtimes/downtime_examplebyname1_downtime.jpg" alt="downtime example of 'By Monitor Name' with preview of affected monitors" style="width:90%;">}}

After the scheduled downtime begins, only alerts for the group `service:web-store` are muted for this monitor.

{{< img src="monitors/downtimes/downtime_examplebyname1_monitor.jpg" alt="Evaluation graph showing downtime for group service:web-store" style="width:90%;">}}

This mutes any alerts that includes the tag `service:web-store`, for example:

| Monitor Group                | Muted |
| ---------------------------  | --- |
| `host:A`, `service:web-store`| Yes |
| `host:A`, `host:B`, `service:synthesizer`, `service:demo`, `service:web-store`| Yes |
| `host:A`, `host:B`, `service:synthesizer`| No (missing `service:web-store`) |

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Monitor Tag" %}}
## By Monitor Tags

<div class="alert alert-info">Monitor tags are independent of tags sent by the Agent or integrations and tags assigned to the data you are querying.</div>

> A downtime can be scheduled for monitors based on their monitor tags, and further scoped down by tag grouped in the monitor query. The `Group scope` field filters the downtime to the data that matches the tags listed. For more information on monitor tags, see the documentation on how to [Manage Monitors][1].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A downtime can be scheduled for monitors based on their monitor tags, and further scoped down by tags grouped in the monitor query. The `Group scope` field filters the downtime to the data that matches the tags listed. For more information on monitor tags, see the documentation on how to [Manage Monitors][1].
```

<div class="alert alert-info">Monitor tags are independent of tags sent by the Agent or integrations and tags assigned to the data you are querying.</div>

A downtime can be scheduled for monitors based on their monitor tags, and further scoped down by tags grouped in the monitor query. The `Group scope` field filters the downtime to the data that matches the tags listed. For more information on monitor tags, see the documentation on how to [Manage Monitors][1].

> As an example use case, you  have several monitors with the same monitor tag `downtime:true` that you want to mute. In the monitor configurations, you set up multi alerts to be sent for each `host` and `service`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an example use case, you have several monitors with the same monitor tag `downtime:true` that you want to mute. In the monitor configurations, you set up multi alerts to be sent for each `host` and `service`.
```
